Best practices for creating dashboards

>>A dashboard should tell a story or answer a question

>>Dashboards should reduce cognitive load, not add to it

Best practices to follow

    When creating a new dashboard, make sure it has a meaningful name.
        If you are creating a dashboard to play or experiment, then put the word TEST or TMP in the name.
        Consider including your name or initials in the dashboard name or as a tag so that people know who owns the dashboard.
        Remove temporary experiment dashboards when you are done with them.
    If you create many related dashboards, think about how to cross-reference them for easy navigation. Refer to Best practices for managing dashboards for more information.
    Grafana retrieves data from a data source. A basic understanding of data sources in general and your specific is important.
    Avoid unnecessary dashboard refreshing to reduce the load on the network or backend. For example, if your data changes every hour, then you don’t need to set the dashboard refresh rate to 30 seconds.
    Use the left and right Y-axes when displaying time series with different units or ranges.
    Add documentation to dashboards and panels.
        To add documentation to a dashboard, add a Text panel visualization to the dashboard. Record things like the purpose of the dashboard, useful resource links, and any instructions users might need to interact with the dashboard. Check out this Wikimedia example.
        To add documentation to a panel, edit the panel settings and add a description. Any text you add will appear if you hover your cursor over the small i in the top left corner of the panel.
    Reuse your dashboards and enforce consistency by using templates and variables.
    Be careful with stacking graph data. The visualizations can be misleading, and hide important data. We recommend turning it off in most cases.



--https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/best-practices/common-observability-strategies/

--https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/best-practices/best-practices-for-managing-dashboards/
